I manage one of the developer
technical support teams
here in Developer Relations.
We are responsible for the
show that you are attending.
I've got great pleasure today in bringing
up two people to the stage to talk about
moving from Panther to Tiger Server.
How many of you right now
are running Panther Server?
Excellent!
That's what I wanted to see.
So after this session,
you'll see the things you need to know
in order to migrate smoothly up to Tiger.
A couple of gotchas that
you might not be aware of.
We do have some fantastic resources also,
so we'll be pointing
you to some of those.
So I'd like to bring on
to the stage right now,
Schoun Regan.
He runs the itinstructure.com site.
He actually does a lot of
training and consulting for Apple.
And Josh Wisenbakker,
who runs afp548.com,
which I'm sure many of you have
used if you are a Macintosh
Systems Administrator.
Thank you.
Thank you, Jason.
So, I didn't get to see it.
How many people have
Tiger Server installed
already and you're running it?
Why are you here?
I'm being facetious because the session
is about upgrading and some of the issues
that you're going to find in upgrading.
We've planned this session out
carefully and sort of narrowed it down
to some of the areas that are most
important when people are upgrading.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So preparing for an upgrade,
what do you need to do?
Well, focus on,
and what we want to do is focus
on critical aspects of this.
We want to focus on
service configuration,
on the password server and the KDC,
and we want to focus on users and groups.
Also, how many people have
read the migration guide?
It's free, it's out there, right?
Okay.
So if you didn't know about it,
there's a link at the end of the session.
It's on Apple's server
site under documentation.
You have a PDF guide,
you can download it.
download that and it talks about
some of the stuff that we're going
to talk about in this session.
So, what are we going to learn?
We're going to talk about
planning the upgrade,
we're going to talk a
little bit about backup,
some rules of engagement.
We have to have some rules here
before we upgrade to Tiger Server,
so we want to talk about
some of these rules.
We're going to talk
about service updates,
and we're going to spend a bulk
of the time towards the end
talking about the LDAP database
password server and the KDC.
That's really what we want to hit here.
So upgrade methods.
What can we do?
How can we upgrade?
Well, you can do a clean install.
30 users, don't really have a lot,
back up the users, data, blow it away,
install Tiger Server, and you're done.
You re-enter the users,
re-enter the passwords.
Kind of straightforward,
you may have done that before.
Upgrade in place.
On upgrade in place,
you have a Panther Server.
It's already running.
How many people have done
an upgrade in place already?
Okay.
So those of you that have
done an upgrade in place,
how many have had problems
after the upgrade?
Okay.
How many have had problems with
the LDAP KDC or password server?
Okay.
Just a few, right?
So some of the issues that
we have that we can face,
we're going to talk about
as we go further on,
and hopefully we can learn from this.
And so when you plan your upgrade,
you don't have to worry about this.
We also want to keep an eye
towards remote upgrading.
Okay.
Next up is the record and
configuration migration.
This is where we migrate
our user records,
we migrate our computer records,
we migrate our KDC information,
and our password server
database information.
Back them up.
Wipe it, reinstall it,
and pull the information back in.
When you do this,
or to assist you in doing some of this,
there are migration tools.
They are binaries, and they're included.
You can see the URL right there.
So, think about your deployment.
Which one of these makes
the most sense to you?
You need to decide.
And what tools are necessary to
accomplish each one of these?
So, backup procedure.
Few slides, can't do without it.
Always have a backup
in place ready to go.
What I want to demonstrate in the
next couple of slides is just a quick
and dirty XServe backup solution.
This is called pleasing your ISP.
Because if you have an XServe
at an ISP or remote location,
do you really want to be going there
while you're trying to do the backup?
Can you do it remotely?
Are there things that you can do?
So you can try this at home.
What we've done is said, well,
let's go ahead and take
a standard G5 XServe,
mirror the two drives,
user data is on an XServe rate,
and we have a third drive,
and we're going to use
that for something else.
You have Mac OS X Server installed
on the Mirrod drives.
Take the third drive and
install Mac OS X Client.
You may need an additional license.
Don't install Server, install Client.
Use the same administrator
name and password.
Turn on SSH, ARD, and then copy over.
The configuration file,
the preferences.plist from
your server to the client.
When you do that,
and you boot from the third disk,
if you're remote, what happens?
Do you have to change
your passwords in R or D?
No.
Does it have the exact
same IP configuration?
Yes.
Is SSH turned on?
If you're using SSH keys,
you may need to migrate the keys over.
Once you've done this,
you can use HDI util, whatever you want,
create a disk image,
make it read-writable.
Use any tool that you want
to take your server image and
clone it to the disk image.
Create a small script that maybe once
a week mounts the disk image and does
a synchronization between your server
mirrored drives and the disk image
and then unmounts the disk image.
You can also have small shell scripts
that sit there and say if Watchdog
or something else reboots the machine
within three times within five minutes,
change the startup disk
to the client disk.
Obviously something's going on,
you may not be able to get into it,
so you put a dead man
switch so it'll change over,
boots from the client disk,
and then you can actually
restore in place,
recover data, do what you need to do.
So you ship the Tiger CD out to your ISP,
you have them put it in the drive bay,
and you leave it go.
I want to turn it over to Josh.
We want to talk about what to
look for or a quick and dirty
demo of just what we talked about.
Josh?
Okay.
Demo number one, please.
And I will say that I'm not
the only person at AFP548.
Joel Renick is the instigator of
our little endeavor there as well.
And we have a lot of talented writers,
and thank you for your support on that.
So taking a look here very
quickly at some of these files
that Schoun was talking about,
you can see we've got our drives here.
If you look at the orange ones,
this is our imaginary XServe down here.
We've got our pre-in-place OS drive
that we haven't updated yet.
We've got our backups drive over here,
and we've got our client OS drive.
So the client drive we have
10.4 client installed on.
And now we want to move these files that
Schoun was talking about over there,
and we just want to make sure that it
is set up the same way this XServe is.
So if it reboots off his
script and then comes up,
it is ready to go off of that machine.
So what we're going to
check is just host config.
This is just standard
old Etsy host config.
ARD is in here,
and this is how you can turn ARD agent
on and off outside of using Kickstart.
This is what ensures it gets
it going up at the beginning.
So just verify ARD agent equals yes.
Okay.
ARD will start up.
Now, something that's not in there
is SHH isn't in there anymore
because LookupD is now the
owner of our SSH processes.
So we do need to check our SSH.
P List and that's in
System Library Launch Daemons,
SSH P List.
And the easy way to tell if it's
enabled or not is if it's enabled,
it doesn't say it's disabled.
On a machine that's disabled at the top,
you'll have a disabled is true key.
When you enable SSH in the system
preferences of the sharing panel,
what it does is it just
takes out that key.
A lot of the Launch Daemons and a
lot of LaunchD functions in this way.
It doesn't usually set disabled to false.
It usually just removes the key through
the system preferences that Apple has.
So now that we've verified
that SSH is going to start up,
and you can see it's on volumes
client system so we know where it is,
we need to copy over our SSH
preferences file,
and this is the file that controls
our Ethernet and our IP interfacing.
So we're just going to copy
it from the OS X server to
the same place in the client.
Okay, so it's copied over,
but we need to make
sure of a couple things.
When we're running our OS X server here,
we are running our own DNS server,
and it's looking at ourselves for DNS.
And we boot off of the client,
it's not going to do that.
So you need to make sure you
come in and edit that plist file.
And yes, I know, Pico.
If you want to come
in and edit this file,
and it's pretty easy to do,
you're just going to remove the
search domain and the DNS server.
And then we just save out our changes.
And then we're all ready to go
there with our config files.
The next thing we need to do is boot up
off the client and make an image of this,
which we're not going to do
all the booting and imaging
because it would take so long.
You can use HDI Util if
you like to use HDI Util,
which is very nice.
And you can also just use Disk Utility.
When you make this image,
you just file a new image from folder,
which moved.
and I would probably actually
use HDI Util to do this so I can
make it directly to a sparse,
and then that way it always
can grow to expand to fit the
size of what we need to do.
And I never have to go in
later and resize the image,
which is just kind of a pain.
In doing this,
it allows you to literally have
remote control over that XServe.
You literally don't need to
go to that machine unless
you have a hardware failure.
You've set it up,
there are a couple other scripts,
and we actually are going
to post some of the scripts.
They'll be on AFP 548
in the coming weeks.
So where are we?
We decided on an installation method.
Do we just want to do a nuke and install
and just type in everything again?
That's fine.
Do we want to do a migration in place?
What do we want to do?
Did we back up our current server?
Yep, we backed it up.
Before we go any further,
there are some rules.
I've seen the lists.
It's explained over and over and over,
but somehow some people
slip through the cracks.
Never update a production server.
So, we'll get serious.
Back up, number one.
Number two,
get all your service configuration
files that you've touched.
If you've tweaked the AFP property list,
the plist file,
go grab it out of library preferences.
If you've tweaked the SSHD config list,
go get it in Etsy.
If you've tweaked the
SMB configuration file,
go grab it.
Go grab the configuration
file for the daemons and the
services that you're running.
Back them up.
In fact, if you want to be good about it,
just tar it private.
Take private, tar it up, zip it off,
you've got most of what you need,
and you can go back and get it later.
I would also grab,
and it's not up here on the slide,
I would also grab library preferences
for the AFP list and a few others.
Use File Merge,
Apple's great developer tool, or Diff.
After you've done an upgrade and
certain things aren't working,
why?
Why aren't they working?
Use File Merge to compare the files.
Oh, here's my SMB config file beforehand,
here's my SMB config
file after the upgrade.
What happened?
Okay?
So, some homegrown config files may
have been fixed by the upgrade.
By that we mean sometimes if
you put some lines in there,
DNS, and you do the upgrade,
those lines may have been altered
a little bit or taken out.
So file merge is a great way to
say here's the way it was before,
here's the way it's going to be now.
Let's go ahead and take a
look at this and see what
lines we need to put back in.
And as a prelude to that,
poor DNS hygiene will be
dealt with harshly in Tiger.
Gotta have DNS ready.
More roles.
System admin tools.
Put them on the client.
Do it right ahead of time.
And understand the role of LaunchD.
LaunchD changes things
significantly for certain services.
So you need to understand what
LaunchD is going to do and how
it's going to affect some of the
configuration files and some of the
custom configurations that you've done.
And you're going to need to go in there.
Hey, I've got an SSH plist now,
just like Josh showed you earlier.
Before it was in the SSHD config file.
Oh my gosh.
Not a problem.
The Launch Services plists
are named accordingly,
according to service.
Go in there,
take a look at what you've got,
take a look at Apple's
upgrade documentation,
and make sure your services
are migrated properly.
Configuration files in Panther,
some of them are binary.
You can still use
Property List Editor to edit these files.
However, if you feel more comfortable,
you might want to use PLUtil.
You can use the line we have right here.
How many of you have already used PLUtil?
Okay, so it's not a bad tool to use.
You can still use Property List Editor if
you choose to do so.
However,
I would recommend that you use PLUtil,
migrate the file to another location,
open it up in Property List Editor,
and then you can use
PLUtil to edit these files.
So,
if you want to use Property List Editor,
do a diff, use file merge,
do whatever you want, make your changes,
send it back.
So the installation itself.
Clean installs follow a set path.
An in-place upgrade follows a much
shorter path than a clean install.
Clean install,
we just walked through the screens.
An in-place upgrade allows you
to do certain things and other
things it takes for granted.
We want to talk about some of those.
An in-place upgrade,
it requires the walkthrough
of just a few screens.
Obviously you do need to
have a new serial number.
Keyboard layout, serial number,
administrator name.
Probably not a good idea to change
the administrator name at this point.
The computer names you can change
inside the preferences.plist.
Networking information you
can change if you so desire.
Directory usage,
we'll look at that in just a minute.
Any of the services that you
want to turn on or turn off.
When you upgrade and find the time,
right?
And then you get a restart.
So if you're doing this,
save a copy of the plist file.
If you already have an
existing LDAP server,
it's best to save that copy
back to an existing LDAP server.
And we're going to talk about that
just a little bit in the demo here,
because what we're talking about is,
if you already have a Mac OS X server,
especially an LDAP server in place,
When you go to install another server,
as long as you're bound to
that initial LDAP server,
you can save all your configuration
files on the LDAP server.
You don't need to save them on a USB disk
or a FireWire drive or an iPod shuffle.
You can do that,
but you can also save them
back to the LDAP server,
which, in the case of many, many servers,
is actually a pretty good idea.
Okay, so I'm going to turn it
over to Josh for a demo,
and we're going on machine number two.
And we're still on one.
So go back to number one, please.
So we now have booted up off
of our Tiger Server CD or DVD,
which Apple mercifully thought
to send both of them to you
in your maintenance kits,
in case you didn't have
an XR with a DVD drive.
So congratulations to
Apple on doing that.
I think that was a very good decision.
So we've booted up,
and we've come up to our
server installer screen now.
And we're just going to kind
of step through the boxes here.
And it's pretty basic.
It's pretty much the same
as you've seen before.
10.4 has some nice
utilities menu here now.
They've added a lot more
utilities that you can run
right off of the installer CD.
Before, remember, we had nothing,
and then we had startup disk,
and if you were on a server,
you had terminal,
and now there's all kinds of
stuff you can get to from here.
These are important utilities generally
to aid you in doing an upgrade.
So, but we're just going to go through
the boxes and get it going.
Of course, we will read the entire
license agreement.
accept it, because yes,
I read the whole thing.
We will go where we're
going to install it.
Under options,
we've got upgrade and erase and install.
There is no archive
install on OS X server,
and it's mainly because there's
preference files everywhere,
and you would never catch all of them.
So we don't have that option here.
So it's either upgrade
or erase and install.
In this case, we're doing an upgrade.
And then at that point we could
customize if we needed to.
Notice that we can't deselect
languages if they're already installed,
because they're installed
and it's just gonna go right
ahead and upgrade this stuff.
We can go through and trim down some of
that 1.2 gigabytes of printer drivers,
if we don't need all 1.2
gigabytes of printer drivers.
And X11, which you can then install.
I like to have X on my machines.
So, at this point we do need to
switch over to number two,
because just like Julia Childs,
it's ready to come out of the oven.
So I should say,
we have the service that we
have up here have 15,000 users.
They all have open directory passwords.
About 3,000 of them have home folders.
Doing an in-place upgrade like
this will take about 25 minutes.
Now that's to install the software.
What Josh has done,
we have installed the software
on demo machine number two,
the machine is rebooted,
and we're now up to the welcome screen.
So I wanted to give you a little
bit of idea of how many users
we have on these machines.
Josh Wisenbak: Yeah,
these machines we do have a fair
amount of stuff to migrate on.
So it's rebooted,
it's installed and copied all the files.
And OS X server, of course,
stops at the secondary screen
after it's done copying files
so that we can go and set it up.
Excuse me.
Choose our language, and then immediately
check our serial number,
which now we have the option of site
licensing on the servers as well,
which is very nice to have,
especially if you start doing things
like putting config records in LDAP.
So if I can type this
whole number in here.
Okay.
I'll talk while he's typing.
Don't worry about writing it down.
It's from the developer site.
You're developers.
It will expire.
You can go get it yourself if you like.
And then we can click through here
and go through all of our stuff.
Go ahead and put the password back in.
You can go ahead and
explain that if you want.
Right.
And it's probably a good idea
not to change the password simply
because the KDC principle for the
user has probably already been
created if you've created a master.
And the password server
is already set up.
So it's probably not a good idea to
change the password at this point.
And I would leave all your network
settings and such like this alone
because we're updating in place.
So we want to maintain the same
configuration we had before.
We're not going to change anything.
Turn off Firewire.
Yeah, that's what I'm going to go do.
Here we go.
Set DirectUSI to no change and look,
it's grayed out.
There's not even an option.
Apple File Services is
the only thing enabled.
I typically, on a new install,
would not check these boxes
because it starts up unsecured
services on your machine,
and I don't like doing that.
Our time zone.
Network time.
Date and time.
Now, go ahead and hit Save As.
If we were connected to another
LDAP server and we were bound to that
LDAP server under a directory node,
we would actually see
that LDAP server offered.
We could save the configuration
record in the config records
of that parent LDAP server,
so we wouldn't have to
retrieve it at a later date.
If this machine is rebooted and a clean,
fresh, unconfigured install
goes to this machine,
it will automatically find that record,
reconfigure itself, and reboot.
Apple put this in,
and this is sort of a sleeping giant.
It's an incredibly efficient way if you
have several machines and you need to
reboot them quickly with clean versions
of the OS to be able to do that.
So it's very, very useful.
We're just going to go ahead and
save it as a configuration file.
It'll show up with the
MAC address as the file.
So go ahead and click configuration file.
We're not going to put it encrypted,
and if we do that,
we can save it anywhere we'd like to.
And it's just a standard plist file?
Yep.
When we're done, we just click Apply,
and it starts going along.
So, one of the things when you do
an in-place upgrade that you'll
see that's a little scary,
and I don't know if we'll get to it here,
is your LDAP records.
And anytime you see the word
LDAP on the screen and you're not
really in control of your server,
you might get a little queasy, right?
So not really to worry.
It's actually taking and
upgrading your server.
Everything's being taken care of.
So let's go ahead and
while this is working,
we're going to go back to the slides.
And we want to talk about
some of the service updates.
Are there any major service updates
in this upgrade that are going
to affect some of my services?
So, directory services, security,
file sharing, web and mail,
and we need to talk about these.
So directory services.
So if I do an upgrade in place,
what changes are going
to be shown in NetInfo?
What changes to LDAP?
And what about binding?
What takes place?
NetInfo is still around in both
Tiger Client and Tiger Server.
NFS mounts, you still go ahead and
throw them in there.
There are just some mild local user
changes if you're used to rooting
around in NetInfo or using DSCL.
And you want to go in and
check your config records,
because the DHCP information is in there.
We're going to talk about
that a little bit later.
And also some basic lookup de-information
has been thrown into NetInfo.
LDAP.
As of 10.3.9,
we have some additional schema.
Of course,
that's going to be there when we
upgrade to the server as well.
And binding.
If the server is bound to
another directory service,
it's probably a good idea to
unbind to that directory service
before you do the upgrade.
Okay?
All right.
Josh?
Okay.
So now if we can switch over
to machine number three.
So now we've finished
our upgrade in place.
Everything went perfectly smooth,
and we've now got a machine
booted up into Tiger Server.
So there are a couple things
that I can just take a look
around here and show you,
and one is that we still do use local
net info database for some things.
And in here we can take a look
mainly at DHCP configuration records,
if we had any subnets defined,
make sure those came over properly.
Take a look at the lookupd records,
make sure that these are
still what they should be.
A new feature that everyone
just really is happy about,
me included, is the new info tab for user
information in our LDAP databases.
You'll see 99 in there on all your users.
That's just that default placeholder
that we used to put in there.
Anyone ever point address book at
their open directory server before,
hoping they'd get all this
information about users,
and everyone had the last name of 99?
Well, there it is,
and now you can go take it out and
put in the correct user information.
So you can go through there
and configure all your users
and fill in this information,
and then address book on Macs will
just automatically pick that info out.
The other thing we'd have to do is
if we were bound to Active Directory,
other directory services,
you probably want to unbind from those
services before you perform an upgrade.
And in that case,
you would want to come into
Directory Access and make sure...
Make sure that you come back
and set up any custom directory
services that you had in there.
With 10.3, we really didn't want to hook
in a master into an AD domain,
but with 10.4 now,
Eric is saying that that's good to go.
We'll take Eric's word for it.
Yeah.
So, back to you, Schoun.
So, don't want you to miss that,
security.
So, when we upgrade in place, OpenSSL,
what did Apple do here?
What about the KDC?
Did they make any significant
GUI changes that we need to talk about?
Again, we've got Open Directory with
respect to security.
What about the firewall?
And what about VPN?
So, what information do we have here?
SSL, we can use the certificate manager,
actually.
In the server admin,
you can also use the self-signed
certificates and some of the other
certificates inside the keychain.
You can find those in there.
You can still import older certificates
if you have them laying around.
The KDC.
Kerberos,
the GUI for Kerberos is nice and
shiny and metal and new and clean,
and there's a nice little option in
there to allow you to use the GUI to
edit the edu.mit.kerberos file.
And we're going to do a demo of
it in here in just a little bit,
but it's really, really useful.
It's one of those sleeper
things that's kind of hidden.
So you can use that to
edit your realms in place.
Very, very useful.
and that, by the way,
works on both server and client.
Open Directory, you have secure binding.
You can turn off certain
authentication methods.
Previously,
this was only available with Nest,
using Nest to get the protocols and
set the protocols and turn these off.
So you have the ability
to do that now as well.
And the firewall.
The firewall, still IPFW.
There are still two files
inside of ETSI IP Filter.
One of them, ipfw.conf.apple,
that's maintained by the GUI.
The other one, ipfw.conf,
that can contain additional rules.
For those of you that like
to hand crank that file,
that's fine.
Just make sure the GUI doesn't
inadvertently override or conflict
with some of the rules that you have.
Pick one, pick the other,
do them both if you want to.
Just make sure that your firewall
rules are set and clear in both files,
and know that both files exist.
You can still do ipfw from
the command line if you want.
Reboot's going to wipe that out unless
you put up a startup item in there.
And if you're upgrading in place
and you have older firewall rules,
those firewall rules
will now migrate over.
And you will actually see them listed
as another set of firewall rules.
rules.
And finally, VPN.
It's now Kerberos for your enjoyment.
That's great.
Love that.
Okay.
And you can now use Raccoon.
They've enabled it.
You can use the SSL cert.
So whether or not you want
to use Kerberos certificate,
it's up to you.
VPN has been upgraded as well.
We just want to show you
some of these services.
Okay.
So back on three again,
and we're going to take a look at
some of the things we just saw there.
And the first one is the new cert
manager that's in server admin.
Apple really didn't have a good
way to access this stuff before.
And when you upgrade to a master,
it's going to go ahead and
generate a default cert.
It's not the greatest cert in the world,
but if you're just looking for
SSL internally on your network,
it does actually work.
You can use this cert for mail and web
and iChat server and such like that.
Okay.
So also new here is Open Directory has
gained a lot of policies
that we can put on things.
So we've got a few more policies in
here as far as just general password
policies go for rotation and complexity.
Under binding,
we now have a new thing in OS X for
server that you'll have to think about.
And this is just like, you know,
has anyone bound a Mac to an
Active Directory domain or
PC Active Directory domain?
And it does this, checks with it,
and it binds and creates a
computer record and all that stuff.
Well,
all that's about two-way trusted binding.
The server authenticates the client,
the client authenticates the server,
everybody is happy, everyone has proved
they are who they are.
And we can do that now in OS X.
So by default, it's checked to enable
it but not require it.
You can require it.
You also have some other
things you can check.
You can disable clear text passwords.
You can sign or encrypt
all your data protocol,
your LDAT packets using Kerberos or S3.
You can block man in the middle
packets where it tags each packet
and then checks to make sure that
when you get it on the other end,
it's actually who it's from.
Is everyone excited about having
NTM v2 in OS X Server and OS X now?
Now we've got a nice little box here
so we can turn things on and off.
If you don't need APOP and
you don't need WebDAV,
turn them off because as it says,
it's recoverable.
So if there's an issue where you need
to have these different protocols,
you can turn them on,
but it's nice to not have to go hit
nest just to turn off the hashes that
you don't want to keep on your system.
If we look at Kerberos now,
this is the same basic
little panel they always had,
but they've now got this
nice thing under edit,
and you can actually edit your realms.
Here you can see our default
OS X realm that was set up.
We can see the servers that are
in it because we haven't set up
any services on this machine yet.
We can see our different DNS domains.
We can configure additional realms
automatically using the DNS records
that we get out of our service records.
There isn't a duplicate button,
so if you wanted to make a new one,
you just make a new one and then
kind of copy the other settings
you had to get it set up correctly.
Let's go back to the slides.
There we go.
All right.
File sharing, somewhat short and
sweet up to this point.
Link aggregation is there for the update.
Obviously,
you must have hardware to support that.
You do have the AFP config or the
com.apple.applefileserver.plist file
that you've made a backup of before.
So if you tweak that file a little bit,
and you've made some changes, again,
you just may want to check the
Kerberos auth key inside that file.
file.
Fun new authentication methods: Kerberos,
NTLMv2, which Josh already talked about.
As previously noted in other sessions,
it can become a primary
domain controller,
and this version can also become
a backup domain controller.
However, as was also stated,
it can only be a backup
domain controller of itself,
or of another Samba
primary domain controller.
SMB SharePoints will still
write to the NetInfo database,
and this is an important thing that
a lot of people get tripped up on.
It's not so much in the upgrade,
but it's still there,
and so you still want to look for that.
If you hand edit the
SMB configuration file,
please be aware that inside
the config record of NetInfo,
it also stores some
SharePoint configuration
information for both AFP and SMB.
In certain circumstances,
the NetInfo will be stored
in the configuration file.
In other words,
the NetInfo will be stored
in the configuration file.
The NetInfo database may
overwrite the SMB config file.
So it's very,
very important that you take a look
at both your SMB config file and the
NetInfo database inside the config
records inside the SharePoints to
make sure that what you're seeing
is exactly what you need to do.
There is a command line tool
that allows you to set up the
SharePoints called Sharing.
You can still get in there and do that.
Doing it in the
GUI writes to both places,
so just double check your work.
FTP is not handled by ZynetD.
Some changes there.
And if you want a Kerberos connection,
the URL is here.
You can actually go and download the
Kerberos extras from the MIT site.
Use Fetch.
New version just came out, I think,
earlier this week or late last week.
Web and Mail.
Apache, you get some new modules
after you update.
Obviously,
there are some updated modules,
and you get some of the newer modules.
If you've customized not
so much your websites,
but the HTTPD configuration file itself,
you should do a diff,
or you should use file merge to take
a look at the file before and after.
Right?
Certificates, reimport the certs.
If you have any other customized changes,
make sure you take a look at them.
Of course, we have the web log there.
And you do have the migration tool
after you've done an in-place upgrade.
Inside of Server Setup Migration Extras,
you have a migration tool that Apple has
provided to help you in your migration
from Panther to Tiger with Apache.
Mail, same thing.
Make sure you back up your
main.cf and your master.cf files.
If you've tarred up private,
you've pretty much covered yourself.
Make sure the mail database
is sort of backed up,
as with any platform, not just Apple.
And again, the command line can be found
inside the migration guide.
to upgrade the database.
You might have a newer version
of Clam AV or Spam Assassin,
or you may have some other configuration
or customization of the mail server.
Now that Apple provides this,
you have to make a decision,
do I want to continue using the GUI,
or do I want to continue doing it
from the command line and doing
my own custom configuration?
Custom configuration is fine,
that's what Unix is here,
that's what OS X is all about.
However, again,
sometimes you get in the GUI and it
may overwrite some of what you've done,
so you need to be a little careful.
For those of you still running
10.1 and 10.2 mail servers,
migration steps are included as well,
and I should mention that we now
have a GUI button for Reconstruct.
DNS.
If you've done manual
configuration of your DNS files,
chances are everything will go great.
It depends on the lines
that you're using for bind.
If you've done CLI edits,
you should probably use the
server admin command line to
start and stop DNS if you need to.
And if you're using
DNS for the first time,
you get reverse records that
are automatically created.
So in your entire setup,
if you forgot that little checkbox,
it's now done for you.
So the DNS interface has
been changed a little bit,
and that's a good thing.
Right?
Next up, DHCP.
No more Googling for what you need to
do to map MAC addresses to IP addresses.
often shows up, "Hey, how do I..." Blurt,
blurt, blurt.
Well, you know what?
Take that, pop it in Safari,
Google for it, I bet you might find it.
So,
You don't have to do that anymore.
Apple put the GUI in.
Now you have MAC address mapping,
so you can map IP addresses
to MAC addresses.
You got to give it up for Apple for this.
The information is stored in
the local NetInfo database,
so if you really want to
hand edit these files,
you could do that.
And as an aside, you could do this in a
limited fashion with Panther.
Did anyone know this?
In the GUI.
You could turn on the NetBoot filtering.
And when you turned on
the Netboot filtering,
you could say only allow Netboot
over these addresses or deny
Netboot over these addresses.
It actually wrote the DHCP config record.
You just didn't turn
on the Netboot service.
So you could do it in Panther,
but they've made it a
lot easier in Tiger.
So that's a really, really good thing.
And then we have the
Gateway Setup Assistant.
If you're setting up Mac OS X Server,
you have an XServe,
you have both Ethernet Jaxx Active,
one live, one internal.
And you need a quick and dirty setup.
You've got to get these things running.
DHCP NAT, VPN, firewall,
you're set to go.
We have some additional services,
obviously,
that weren't available in Panther.
We're not going to speak to those here.
Those are obviously spoken
to in other sessions,
but the Xgrid controller and Jabber.
So we want to talk about some of these,
do a little demo, a little run through.
Okay.
Back on three again, please.
And I will come to Apple's
defense a little bit on the KB,
which I do every now and then.
They do have a fairly nice KB article
on how to do MAC address mapping
with DHCP through NetInfoManager,
although it's now so much
easier to browse for the
machine and pick it and click,
I want this machine to be called this.
So it is a nice improvement.
So what we're going to look at here very
briefly is the Gateway Setup Assistant.
And the Gateway Setup Assistant has
probably the least often used.
It's the most used icon
in the OS X's family,
and that's the little tuxedo guy here.
There's a dry cleaner in
Raleigh North Carolina that has
that on their sign out front,
actually.
So we can come through here and
we can configure our server.
Let me log in.
and it's going to go through and
it takes a look at everything.
And this is a nice way to quickly set up,
like Schoun said,
that gateway Mac into there.
We tell it which one is
connected to the internet.
We then pick how we're
going to want to share.
We can share on one or multiples.
Obviously, you're not going to have
airport in an XServe,
but this is a PowerBook, so it does.
G5 desktop machines could have airport.
FireWire is always there as an option
for doing your networking as well.
VPN settings.
You can set up a VPN server.
We'll give it an easy secret.
All right.
I'll hand that out to my users.
And then we can click Apply and
it will go and set everything up.
Don't run this if you've
already set up your server,
because it goes through and rewrites
all your configuration files for
whatever you've just told it to do.
So you can look at it,
you can click the More Info
button and things like that,
but I wouldn't turn it on.
It also automatically
configures the firewall.
and just allows all traffic
on the internal network,
but it blocks most incoming
stuff from the outside.
So remember,
if you're going to then turn on a
mail server or something like that,
or need to direct ports
inside your network,
you'll need to go and set that up
after you're done with that as well.
Back to Schoun.
So where are we?
Well, regardless of where you
did your upgrade path,
regardless of what went on,
We talked about customized
configuration files,
and we need those customized
and we had to take care of that.
We have more corporized services,
so we have more corporized
principles that we need to deal with
inside the KDC principle database.
You handled each service and you
tested it and you made sure it worked.
And you may have gained
some GUI help along the way,
like the setup assistant,
or you may have done it via the
command line and hand cranked them out.
Now, all we have left is user data.
No problem.
Let's talk about our
upgrade in place scenarios.
What do we need to do?
What scenarios do we have?
We have Jaguar to Tiger Local.
We have Panther Local to Tiger Local.
We have Panther Master to Tiger Master.
If we have a Jaguar local,
we have a local net info database,
we may have shadow hash passwords,
we may have crypt passwords.
We're going on one scenario.
Upon the upgrade,
you may want to change the password.
Reset it.
A Jaguar parent.
If password server has been used,
it's a good idea to force the
password change for all the users.
Panther Local to Tiger Local.
In Panther Local to Tiger Local,
all users have a
password server password.
Password server is there
at the get-go in Panther,
whether it's a local or a master.
And you need to remind yourself,
did I use Nest to turn
off certain protocols?
Maybe I turned off WebDAV,
maybe I turned off APOP.
What did I turn off?
And I probably, after the upgrade,
should go back into the nice
GUI that we have inside Server Admin
and Open Directory and just
double check that some of these
protocols are again turned off.
Panther Local to Tiger Local.
It is important to understand
after the upgrade if you're
running a local Tiger Server,
new users that you create will not
have a password server password.
They will have a shadow hash password.
Okay?
Now, it might be best if you want
everything uniform to change
everything to the same password type.
Okay?
Is this a bad thing?
Absolutely not.
Password policies now apply
to the ShadowHash passwords.
This is an excellent way because
Tiger Server really doesn't need to
run password server in a local method.
So now the password server CPU overhead,
you have another additional
service that you really don't
need running at that point.
So you have these ShadowHash passwords
and you can certainly use them.
You can certainly apply
the policies to them.
So what about a
Panther Master to a Tiger Master?
During the upgrade in place,
it's really not a good idea
to change the password.
Remember, Josh showed you that,
you really can't change
the directory usage.
And the migration of the LDAP data takes
place during the initial configuration.
It's done for you.
If you have your own
customized schema changes,
those may be remapped.
A lot of people went out and did
customized schema changes that mirror
what Apple did automatically in Tiger.
So it's a good idea if you already
did some of what they did in Tiger,
you should probably go back and
take a look after the upgrade.
If you've done any sort
of root DN changes,
those may have been changed as well.
It depends on how customized
you made your configuration.
And again, when you upgrade,
if you had an edu.mit.kubros file
that you made manual changes to,
that file may have been overwritten.
So if you're doing any sort of cross-ramp
authentication or anything else,
you may want to go back
and check that file.
You do want to take advantage of all
the new features when you do an upgrade.
If you have legacy groups,
there is a legacy group GUI upgrade
path that you can follow.
Use Workgroup Manager to
perform this process.
And if you had a Panther Master that
was not a KDC for some reason,
you can use slap config with a Kerberize
flag to actually hand crank the KDC.
So an upgrade in place master synopsis.
The passwords are still in
the password server database.
The KDC principal database still
retains all the user principles,
everything else you need.
Real world, what did you do?
You did SlapCat or LDAP search
to suck out your configuration
records into a file,
if you didn't already have a
full backup somewhere else.
You do another LDAP search
to extract the records,
or SlapCat to extract the records after.
Use File Merge,
use Diff to see if any of your customized
configuration changes were ever written,
what took place.
Don't be afraid to extract these records
and take a look at what's in there.
This is probably the best
way to ensure a smooth,
in-place upgrade.
But how do we do that?
Well, what if I don't want to
do an upgrade in place?
I don't want to.
What if I want to do a clean install,
and I want to pull the stuff back in?
Huh?
What if I want to do it that way?
Now what do I do?
What sort of combinations should we
be aware of when we're doing this?
Well, Jaguar Server Local,
if you've made edits to
the NetInfo database.
Jaguar Server Parent,
you have a parent NetInfo database,
right?
You did have the option to
use the password server,
but there was no KDC.
So you had to extract the users
out of the NetInfo database.
You use NI Dump for this.
Migration with user databases
and password server.
Password server, you had a local net info
database with password server.
Zip up the password server, copy it,
do whatever you want.
You can use,
we actually use the command line here
in just a little bit with mkpassdb,
that's fine.
And with a master,
what do you need to migrate?
The KDC records, you need to migrate the
password server records,
you need to migrate the LDAP database.
Okay?
So, what should we do with regard to the
user records in the user database?
How do we extract these records?
How do we pull them back in?
What about the password server passwords?
What about the user principles?
How do we get this done?
Well, one option is to use Slapcat.
We have LDF up here.
Or LDF search, sorry.
And we do a clean install and then
we re-import the user records.
If you have groups where you have
changed the default group ID,
and we've seen this actually
in a couple upgrades,
the group membership shows up
as unknown in certain cases.
So if you have cases where the
group ID has been customized,
you may want to go back in
and do a Schoun recursive and
re-associate the group memberships.
Exporting passwords, MKPassDB.
Suck them out.
Okay?
Kerberos database, Kera B5 util.
Suck 'em out.
If it's a local, it doesn't have a KDC.
You don't have to worry about that stuff.
When you do this, depending on how
customized your schema was,
you may not get all the new
stuff if you suck stuff out and
you want to pull it back in.
What about importing it?
Now we've got it out,
now we've tarted it up,
now what do we do?
Well,
when we set up the new Tiger Server,
it's a good idea to use the
same administrator name,
same long name, same short name,
same password.
It's social engineering.
That way you don't have
to deal with anything new.
Use LDAP add to suck
the database back in.
Password server use MKPassDB with merge.
And you can use load.
Load is up here for the care B5 util.
However,
You might want to take a look
at that database along with your
brand new Tiger database because
you really don't want to pull in
service principles that now exist
inside the Tiger Server database.
So you want to do a load after
you've taken a look at both
databases and merged both databases.
It's actually pretty important.
So go ahead and reboot.
So Josh is going to
show you in this demo.
How to suck the information out.
Go back to machine number one, please.
So we're going to suck
out this information,
and I should point out that you need
to keep this information secure.
Don't leave it on a machine.
Don't copy it with FTP.
Don't email it to yourself.
Keep this really secure,
because this is all your user records and
all your database and everything else.
It's something that you're going to
want to stick out on a thumb drive,
unplug it from that computer,
carry it to the other computer,
suck it in on the other machine or
after you've wiped and reinstalled,
and then either make sure that
you destroy the data or you
make sure you archive it safely.
10.4 does this automatic backup feature,
which is so nifty,
you almost fall down when you see it,
and where it actually archives,
it generates a history on
encrypted disk images of all of
this same stuff automatically,
and you can go back to any point
in time with your OD system.
So what we're going to look at here
is just the three commands that
Sean had on his slides and how to
get this information out of there.
We've got our backup volume mounted,
so we can pretend this is a thumb
drive and we're going to yank it out.
And the first one is
just using LDAP search.
We tell it the host name.
We tell it our search base,
what class we want to take out,
and where we want to put it.
We've got a lot of users on this machine,
so it should take just a second to run,
and it will generate a
fairly large LDF file,
although not gigantic.
So when it's done,
we're going to go ahead and run it.
And then when it's done,
I'll show you where the file is,
which looks like an address book file.
An address book would love to open it,
but if an address book
opens a file of this size,
it'll just fall down and
roll underneath the couch.
So probably wouldn't want to do that.
So that's finished now,
and if we take a look where we said,
there it is.
And let's see, it's 20 megs,
so not too bad.
The next thing we want to do is we
want to dump out our password server.
And we do this using
the makepassdb command,
and this will allow us to dump this out.
And it takes out all of
our authorization records.
Now, this one's a little bit different in
that it doesn't go to a single file.
It actually exports
three different files.
So we need to tell it a directory
instead of just a file to output to.
This one does require sudo to run.
And it's going to run.
You can just see that it's
just copying out information.
And in a minute, it'll get finished up.
There we go.
And then we can take a look over on
our backups volume and in our folder.
And there we have our authentication
records have been backed up as well.
10.2 and 10.3 have really
nice Kerberos support in them,
so we want to make sure we back
up all these principles as well.
We don't want to have to go and
try to remake all this by hand.
So we can use the KDB 5.0 util
to dump this information out.
Again, this is all very critical,
sensitive information that
you want to keep backed up.
Again, it's sudo.
I'm still with my Windows,
so I don't have to authenticate again.
And now I can see that I've successfully
dumped out my KDC records as well.
And this is all my service and user
principles have been backed up.
Back to you, Schoun.
So what about replicas?
Toast them.
They're replicas.
Get rid of them,
take them out of the record
of your Tiger or your upgrade,
and move them over.
What about home directories?
Zip 'em up, copy 'em over.
If you're copying 'em over and
you're not doing an upgrade in place,
unzip 'em and don't worry about it.
As long as the UIDs match,
you should be okay.
It's when you get into
the customized UIDs,
it might be a little different.
So where are we?
NetInfo.
We know that NetInfo contains
some additional user records.
If we're going from Jaguar or doing
something else kind of funky like that,
that's fine, but we can use NI Dump to
actually extract the records.
What about LDAP?
What do we need to worry about?
We need to extract those user records.
We didn't talk about computer records,
but it's the same thing.
We just do an LDAP search with a
different OU to pick up what we need.
The password server database is as
simple as copying it and backing it up.
The KDC, back it up,
and the home directories move over.
What are your challenges?
What are you going to face?
During the Q&A,
what are we going to hear?
"My SSH service died,
and I couldn't log in."
Or SMB was doing something really,
really strange afterwards,
and I couldn't get to it.
Things aren't working right.
Things aren't resolving right.
DNS might be slightly misconfigured.
I had to open a book a little
bit and learn about LDAP.
Don't worry, that's good for you.
As we wrap up,
upgrading is and has always
been no matter what platform,
it is not an error-free process.
Planning and testing are
the best defense you have.
If you can do so,
the upgrade in place is great.
Apple has made some great tools to
allow the upgrade in place to occur.
It works really, really well.
If you've taken your server and
you've customized those configuration
files and you've tweaked the schema,
you just need to check along the way,
did it overwrite?
Did it change?
The related sessions that we have,
so you can look at them
a little bit later,
the Mac OS X server overview,
the feedback forum,
which was excellent today,
leveraging the power of ACLs,
managing clients in the enterprise.
Integrating Mac OS X into a
heterogeneous environment.
Monitoring your system with
ARD and open source tools.
Enterprise messaging solutions,
network authentication,
real-world desktop management practices,
and building automator actions.
For more information, obviously,
the documentation, the sample code,
everything else,
developer.apple.com/wwdc2005.
Here are some URLs.
I would highly recommend
that you do the first one.
The migration guide, download it,
read it.
Tiger Server documentation PDFs.
Best thing in the world,
suck them all in,
use one of the free resource
tools to combine them together,
change ownership back
to preview or spotlight,
and now you have a nice
searchable database.
It's about 22 meg,
you can leave it on your drive.
It's a great way to do it.
AFP548.com goes without saying.
Apple has certification classes
in Directory Services and other
classes that are available.
The Mac OS X Server listserv
and discussions,
the discussion groups at Apple.
Who to contact?
You can contact these
people for more information.
And I think Jason?